Add the Swan Lake Beta2 Release Note (#2528)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-beta2/RELEASE_NOTE.md

- Updated to return module-specific errors from the WebSub public APIs.
- Updated to allow non-remote methods in the subscriber service.

#### `websubhub` Package

- Updated to log the error stack trace when an error is returned from the remote function of the hub service.
- Updated to return the module-specific errors from the WebSubHub public APIs.
- Updated to allow non-remote methods in the Hub Service.
- Updated to allow `http:Headers` as an optional parameter in specific remote methods (`onRegisterTopic`/`onDeregisterTopic`/`onUpdateMessage`/`onSubscription`/`onUnsubscription`).

### Bug Fixes

To view bug fixes, see the [GitHub milestone for Swan Lake Beta2](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-standard-library/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%22Swan+Lake+Beta2%22+label%3AType%2FBug).

## Code to Cloud Updates

### Bug Fixes

To view bug fixes, see the [GitHub milestone for Swan Lake Beta2](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerina-c2c/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3AType%2FBug+milestone%3A%22Ballerina+Swan+Lake+-+Beta2%22).

## Developer Tools Updates

### New Features

#### Debugger 

> - Added expression evaluation support for client remote method call actions.

Reviewer: Full stop at the end of bullet sentence seems inconsistent. Please check all the places.

Author: We have used full stops in all the bullet points.

active: swan-lake-beta2
redirect_from: 
    - /downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-beta2
    - /downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/
    - /downloads/swan-lake-release-notes
---
## Overview of Ballerina Swan Lake Beta2

<em>This is the second beta release leading up to the Ballerina Swan Lake GA release.</em> 

It introduces the new language features planned for the Swan Lake GA release and includes improvements and bug fixes done to the compiler, runtime, standard library, and developer tooling after the Swan Lake Beta1 release.

## Updating Ballerina

If you are already using Ballerina, use the [Ballerina Update Tool](/learn/tooling-guide/cli-tools/update-tool/) to directly update to Ballerina Swan Lake Beta2. 

First, run the command below to update the update tool to its latest version. 

> `bal update`

If your **Update Tool is below version 0.8.14**, use the `ballerina update` command.

Next, run the command below to update to Swan Lake Beta2.

> `bal dist pull slbeta2`

## Installing Ballerina

If you have not installed Ballerina, then download the [installers](/downloads/#swanlake) to install.

## Language Updates

### Improvements

> - Introduced the support for recursive tuple types.

Reviewer: Break points are used in language and runtime sections. but not in standard library, which is incosistent.

Author: We do not (need to) use bullet points when we have only one point. Instead, bullet points are used when we have multiple points.

That is the practice followed throughout the release note.

```ballerina
type RecursiveType [int, RecursiveType[]];

public function main() {
    RecursiveType a = [1];
    RecursiveType b = [1, []];
    RecursiveType c = [1, [a]];
}
```

- Changed the static type of the string iteration from `string` to `string:Char`.

```ballerina
public function main() {
    string str = "foo";

    foreach string:Char s in str {
        io:println(s);        
    }

>     record {| string:Char value; |}? next = str.iterator().next();

Reviewer: Code is not formatted properly

Author: Fixed.

    if !(next is ()) {
        io:println(next.value);
    }
}
```

### Bug Fixes

To view bug fixes, see the [GitHub milestone for Swan Lake Beta2](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A%22Ballerina+Swan+Lake+-+Beta2%22+label%3AType%2FBug+label%3ATeam%2FCompilerFE).

## Runtime Updates

### Improvements

> - Introduced the support for `configurable` variables of union types via the TOML syntax. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Introduced `configurable` variables of union types via the TOML syntax. 
```

```ballerina
configurable map<anydata> myMap = ?;
configurable int|string id = ?;
```

> **TOML:**

Reviewer: Using bold makes it similar to  level 3 heading. Please change

Author: This will be fixed via the CSS styles in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/2545.

```toml
id = "12345"

[myMap]
name = "John"
age = 10
```

### Bug Fixes

To view bug fixes, see the [GitHub milestone for Swan Lake Beta2](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A%22Ballerina+Swan+Lake+-+Beta2%22+label%3AType%2FBug+label%3ATeam%2FjBallerina).

## Standard Library Updates

### New Features

> #### `postgresql` Package

Reviewer: @daneshk Is this part of standard library  packages? This is ballerinax and we don't ship with distribution too right?

Reviewer 3: yes, let's remove it from the release notes

Author: Removed. Thanks!

Introduced the new `postgresql` database package with this release. This package provides the functionality required to access and manipulate data stored in a PostgreSQL database.

#### `log` Package

Added observability span context values to log messages when observability is enabled.

#### `io` Package

> Introduced the `io:fprint` and `io:fprintln` APIs.

Reviewer 4: Shouldn't we explain what these do? A simple introduction?

Author: @BuddhiWathsala

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/2528#discussion_r658764205.

> Introduced the `io:fprint` and `io:fprintln` APIs.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Introduced the `io:fprint` and `io:fprintln` APIs which allows the users to print content to a given stream (standard error or standard out).
```

> Introduced the `io:fprint` and `io:fprintln` APIs which allows the users to print content to a given stream (standard error or standard out).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Introduced the `io:fprint` and `io:fprintln` APIs which allow users to print content to a given stream (standard error or standard out).
```

```ballerina
io:fprint(io:stderr, "Unexpected error occurred");
io:fprintln(io:stderr, "Unexpected error occurred");
io:fprint(io:stdout, "Passed without an error");
io:fprintln(io:stdout, "Passed without an error");
```

#### `websocket` Package

> Introduced the declarative auth support for the server-side. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Introduced declarative auth support for the server-side. 
```

#### `websub` Package

Added a utility method to retrieve HTTP headers from the `websub:ContentDistributionMessage`.

### Improvements

#### Database Packages

Made the return type of the stream to be inferred now as a second parameter to the query remote method.

**Previous Syntax**

```ballerina

> stream<record{}, error> resultStream =

Reviewer: Code is not formatted properly

Author: Fixed.

        jdbcClient->query(`SELECT * FROM Customers`, Customer);

stream<Customer, sql:Error> customerStream =
        <stream<Customer, sql:Error>>resultStream;
```

> According to the previous syntax, you can give the `Customer` record as the expected record type of the stream but you can not get that stream directly. For that, you have to cast the returned stream to the expected stream. Therefore, this has been improved to directly get data as an expected record type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
According to the previous syntax, you can give the `Customer` record as the expected record type of the stream but you cannot get that stream directly. To do that, you have to cast the returned stream to the expected stream. Therefore, this has been improved to directly access data as an expected record type.
```

> According to the previous syntax, you can give the `Customer` record as the expected record type of the stream but you can not get that stream directly. For that, you have to cast the returned stream to the expected stream. Therefore, this has been improved to directly get data as an expected record type.

Reviewer 2: Have we used second person/ 'you' in release notes before?

Author: Yes. That is the practice followed throughout the docs.

**New Syntax**

```ballerina
stream<Customer, error> customerStream = sqlClient->query(`SELECT * FROM Customers`);
```

#### `http` Package

- Updated to respond with a 202 Accepted response when the resource function returns nil. If the `http:Caller` is used in the resource, then, returning nil from the resource leads to a 500 Internal Server Error response.
- Updated to log the error stack trace when an error is returned from the resource function and on connection failures.
- Updated to log a warning when the same request is responded more than one time.

#### `graphql` Package

> - Made the GraphQL resource execution non-blocking.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- GraphQL resource execution is now non-blocking.
```

Author: This was changed to make the wordings consistent with the others (i.e., to start with the past tense of the verb).

- Updated to send a `BAD_REQUEST` status code for the responses with document validation errors.

#### `ftp` Package

- Changed the `get`, `append`, and `put` method APIs to support `stream` instead of using `io:ReadableByteChannel` for reading and writing files.
- Updated to support the FTP protocol with password and private key based authentications.

#### `websub` Package

- Updated to log the error stack trace when an error is returned from the remote function of the subscriber service.
- Updated to return module-specific errors from the WebSub public APIs.
- Updated to allow non-remote methods in the subscriber service.

#### `websubhub` Package

- Updated to log the error stack trace when an error is returned from the remote function of the hub service.
- Updated to return the module-specific errors from the WebSubHub public APIs.
- Updated to allow non-remote methods in the Hub Service.

> - Updated to allow `http:Headers` as an optional parameter in specific remote-methods(`onRegisterTopic`/`onDeregisterTopic`/`onUpdateMessage`/`onSubscription`/`onUnsubscription`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Updated to allow `http:Headers` as an optional parameter in specific remote methods(`onRegisterTopic`/`onDeregisterTopic`/`onUpdateMessage`/`onSubscription`/`onUnsubscription`).
```
